Phase 0 : 
✅ Priority classifier loaded successfully
✅ Criticality regressor loaded successfully
Base model required: <exact Qwen model name>
✅ LoRA adapter weights are readable
✅ tokenizer.json is valid
✅ PHASE 0 PASSED — MODELS ARE READY

Phase 1 summary — Input Validation
Phase 1 adds a validation layer before XGBoost inference.
app/feature_schema.py defines the exact 61 features required by both models.
app/schemas.py validates incoming data:all 61 fields must be present;
no extra fields are allowed;
each value must be numeric and finite (no null, NaN, or infinity).

app/main.py exposes:GET /health to confirm the service is running;
POST /validate to validate a feature payload.

Run the service with:
uvicorn app.main:app --reload
Test it at:
http://127.0.0.1:8000/docs

Phase 2 connects the validated 61-feature input to the saved XGBoost classifier and regressor.
The service loads both models once and reuses them for later API requests.
It preserves the exact feature order used during model training before predicting.
POST /predict returns the raw priority class, class probabilities, and a criticality score.
The priority labels 0, 1, and 2 still need confirmation before being shown as LOW, MEDIUM, or HIGH.

Phase 3 summary — Qwen LoRA explanation layer
Phase 3 integrates the local PriorAuthLM LoRA adapter with its required base model, Qwen/Qwen2.5-1.5B-Instruct.
The API runs the XGBoost priority and criticality predictions first, then passes those results with a clinical summary to the language model.
POST /explain returns both the structured XGBoost output and a generated prior-authorization explanation.
The model is loaded once and reused for later requests, improving response time after the initial load.
The generated explanation is assistive only and must not be treated as a final clinical or authorization decision.

## Phase 4 summary — Rule Engine integration

Phase 4 combines the existing Rule Engine response with XGBoost predictions and the PriorAuthLM explanation.  
`POST /assess` accepts the patient ID, Rule Engine result, triggered rules, explanations, clinical summary, and 61 model features.  
The Rule Engine remains authoritative for the final decision and whether authorization is required.  
AI outputs are included as assistive information and cannot override Rule Engine logic.  
The response also flags cases requiring human review, such as `insufficient_information` medical necessity.

